Annotate incomparable timestamps with a clock-specific suffix (#144)
ietf-rats-wg/architecture: draft-ietf-rats-architecture.md

| ID | Event                       | Explanation of event
|----|-----------------------------|-----------------------

> | VC | Value created               | A value to appear in a Claim was created.  In some cases, a value may have technically existed before an Attester became aware of it but the Attester might have no idea how long it has had that value.  In such a case, the Value created time is the time at which the Claim containing the copy of the value was created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| VG | Value generated             | A value to appear in a Claim was created.  In some cases, a value may have technically existed before an Attester became aware of it but the Attester might have no idea how long it has had that value.  In such a case, the Value created time is the time at which the Claim containing the copy of the value was created.
```

Reviewer: Less growing pains, more consistence?

Reviewer: The underlying question here is. Is it necessary that some Verifiers are informed about the "timeliness" of the "new VG"?

As Dave already highlighted, we discussed this a bit and the sanity check ask is the following:

If we collapse VG and AA semantics, it is not distinguishable for Verifier, if a corresponding Value generated time is about Attester awareness/Claim generation or Value Generation. Is that okay or does that create uncertainty that could result in degradation of evidence trustworthiness?

determine whether the value of a claim is recent, since the claim value
might have been generated long before the nonce was sent by the Verifier.
However, if the Verifier decides that the Attester can be trusted to
correctly provide the delta time(EGa)-time(VCa), then it can determine recency
by checking `time(RGv)-time(NSv) + time(EGa)-time(VCa) < Threshold`.

Similarly if, based on an Attestation Result from a Verifier it trusts,
the Relying Party decides that the Attester can be trusted to correctly
provide time deltas, then it can determine whether the Attestation
Result is fresh by checking
`time(OPr)-time(NSr) + time(RRa)-time(EGa) < Threshold`.
Although the Nonce2 and time(RRa)-time(EGa) values cannot be inside
the Attestation Result, they might be signed by the Attester such
that the Attestation Result vouches for the Attester's signing
capability.

The Relying Party must still be careful, however, to not allow continued
use beyond the period for which it deems the Attestation Result to remain
valid.  Thus, if the Attestation Result sends a validity lifetime
in terms of time(RXv)-time(RGv), then the Relying Party can check

> `time(OPr)-time(NSr) < time(RXv)-time(RGv)`.

Reviewer 2: Here is a little weird to me. Because even when the actual time(NSr) > actual time(RXv), 'time(OPr)-time(NSr) < time(RXv)-time(RGv)' may still be true. If so this comparsion makes no sense.
One better expression here, I think, is that 'time(OPr)-time(NSr) + time(RRa)-time(EGa) < time(RXv)-time(RGv)'.
